# Recreating the Richard Dennis turtle trading experiment using Python
For this project, I wanted to recreate the famous Turtle Trading experiment done by Richard Dennis in the 1980's. If you are unfamiliar, turtle trading is a trend following trading system designed to catch large price movements on breakouts. It is called "turtle trading" as Richard Dennis went on a trip to singapore, and came back with the idea to "grow traders like they grow turtles in Singapore". He selected a handful of students who became known as turtles. The turtles followed very specific sets of rules that can be found online, although not all sets of rules available seem to be the same. For this project, I mainly used ideas from [https://oxfordstrat.com/coasdfASD32/uploads/2016/01/turtle-rules.pdf)] and [https://www.financialwisdomforum.org/gummy-stuff/turtle-trading.htm]. 

There were two sets of rules the turtles could follow, but I chose to follow just the first set for my experiment. Basically, you enter a trade on a 20 day breakout, and only if the previous 20 day breakout would have resulted in a losing trade. You would then exit the trade if the price broke a 10 day high or low in the opposite direction. However, after some experimentation, I found that exiting after a 20 day high or low was broken was much more profitable. I will show examples for each. The last important thing to mention is how the turtles sized their positions. They used a calculation to get their "Unit" which was 1% of their account value divided by what they called the "Market Dollar Volatility". This was calcuated by another turtle term called "N" multiplied by dollars per point. N was just the 20 day ATR, and since this system was designed for futures trading, dollars per point was essentially the contract size. I would recommend reading the Oxfordstrat article I linked if you want to understand this further. However, since I will be using stock data not furtures, we will treat dollars per point as just the stock price. 
